.TH "HTTP Status Codes" 1

.SH SUMMARY

Converted from this Wikipedia Article: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes

This is a list of Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) response status codes. It includes codes from
IETF internet standards, other IETF RFCs, other specifications, and some additional commonly used
codes. The first digit of the status code specifies one of five classes of response; an HTTP client must recognise these five classes at a minimum. The phrases used are the standard wordings, but any human-readable alternative can be provided. Unless otherwise stated, the status code is part of the HTTP/1.1 standard (RFC 7231).[1]

The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) maintains the official registry of HTTP status codes.

Microsoft IIS sometimes uses additional decimal sub-codes to provide more specific information,
but not all of those are here (note that these sub-codes only appear in the response payload and in
documentation; not in the place of an actual HTTP status code).

.SH 1xx Informational

Request received, continuing process.

This class of status code indicates a provisional response, consisting only of the Status-Line and
optional headers, and is terminated by an empty line. Since HTTP/1.0 did not define any 1xx status
codes, servers must not send a 1xx response to an HTTP/1.0 client except under experimental
conditions.

.B 100 Continue

The server has received the request headers and the client should proceed to send the request body
(in the case of a request for which a body needs to be sent; for example, a POST request). Sending
a large request body to a server after a request has been rejected for inappropriate headers would
be inefficient. To have a server check the request's headers, a client must send Expect:
100-continue as a header in its initial request and receive a 100 Continue status code in response
before sending the body. The response 417 Expectation Failed indicates the request should not be
continued.

.B 101 Switching Protocols

The requester has asked the server to switch protocols and the server has agreed to do so.

.B 102 Processing (WebDAV; RFC 2518)

A WebDAV request may contain many sub-requests involving file operations, requiring a long time to
complete the request. This code indicates that the server has received and is processing the
request, but no response is available yet.[6] This prevents the client from timing out and assuming
the request was lost.

.SH 2xx Success
This class of status codes indicates the action requested by the client was received, understood,
accepted, and processed successfully.

.B 200 OK

Standard response for successful HTTP requests. The actual response will depend on the request
method used. In a GET request, the response will contain an entity corresponding to the requested
resource. In a POST request, the response will contain an entity describing or containing the result
of the action.

.B 201 Created

The request has been fulfilled, resulting in the creation of a new resource

.B 202 Accepted

The request has been accepted for processing, but the processing has not been completed. The request
might or might not be eventually acted upon, and may be disallowed when processing occurs.

.B 203 Non-Authoritative Information (since HTTP/1.1)

The server is a transforming proxy (e.g. a Web accelerator) that received a 200 OK from its origin,
but is returning a modified version of the origin's response.

.B 204 No Content

The server successfully processed the request and is not returning any content.

.B 205 Reset Content

The server successfully processed the request, but is not returning any content. Unlike a 204
response, this response requires that the requester reset the document view.

.B 206 Partial Content (RFC 7233)

The server is delivering only part of the resource (byte serving) due to a range header sent by the
client. The range header is used by HTTP clients to enable resuming of interrupted downloads, or
split a download into multiple simultaneous streams.

.B 207 Multi-Status (WebDAV; RFC 4918)

The message body that follows is an XML message and can contain a number of separate response codes,
depending on how many sub-requests were made.

.B 208 Already Reported (WebDAV; RFC 5842)

The members of a DAV binding have already been enumerated in a previous reply to this request, and
are not being included again.

.B 226 IM Used (RFC 3229)

The server has fulfilled a request for the resource, and the response is a representation of the
result of one or more instance-manipulations applied to the current instance.

.SH 3xx Redirection

This class of status code indicates the client must take additional action to complete the request.
Many of these status codes are used in URL redirection.

A user agent may carry out the additional action with no user interaction only if the method used in
the second request is GET or HEAD. A user agent may automatically redirect a request. A user agent
should detect and intervene to prevent cyclical redirects.

.B 300 Multiple Choices

Indicates multiple options for the resource from which the client may choose (via agent-driven
content negotiation). For example, this code could be used to present multiple video format options,
to list files with different filename extensions, or to suggest word-sense disambiguation.

.B 301 Moved Permanently

This and all future requests should be directed to the given URI.

.B 302 Found

This is an example of industry practice contradicting the standard. The HTTP/1.0 specification
(RFC 1945) required the client to perform a temporary redirect (the original describing phrase was
"Moved Temporarily"), but popular browsers implemented 302 with the functionality of a 303 See
Other. Therefore, HTTP/1.1 added status codes 303 and 307 to distinguish between the two behaviours.
However, some Web applications and frameworks use the 302 status code as if it were the 303.

.B 303 See Other (since HTTP/1.1)

The response to the request can be found under another URI using a GET method. When received in
response to a POST (or PUT/DELETE), the client should presume that the server has received the data
and should issue a redirect with a separate GET message.

.B 304 Not Modified (RFC 7232)

Indicates that the resource has not been modified since the version specified by the request headers
If-Modified-Since or If-None-Match. In such case, there is no need to retransmit the resource since
the client still has a previously-downloaded copy.

.B 305 Use Proxy (since HTTP/1.1)

The requested resource is available only through a proxy, the address for which is provided in the
response. Many HTTP clients (such as Mozilla and Internet Explorer) do not correctly handle
responses with this status code, primarily for security reasons.

.B 306 Switch Proxy

No longer used. Originally meant "Subsequent requests should use the specified proxy."

.B 307 Temporary Redirect (since HTTP/1.1)

In this case, the request should be repeated with another URI; however, future requests should still
use the original URI. In contrast to how 302 was historically implemented, the request method is not
allowed to be changed when reissuing the original request. For example, a POST request should be
repeated using another POST request.

.B 308 Permanent Redirect (RFC 7538)

The request and all future requests should be repeated using another URI. 307 and 308 parallel the
behaviors of 302 and 301, but do not allow the HTTP method to change. So, for example, submitting a
form to a permanently redirected resource may continue smoothly.

.SH 4xx Client Error

The 4xx class of status code is intended for situations in which the client seems to have erred.
Except when responding to a HEAD request, the server should include an entity containing an
explanation of the error situation, and whether it is a temporary or permanent condition. These
status codes are applicable to any request method. User agents should display any included entity
to the user.

.B 400 Bad Request

The server cannot or will not process the request due to an apparent client error (e.g., malformed
request syntax, too large size, invalid request message framing, or deceptive request routing).

.B 401 Unauthorized (RFC 7235)

Similar to 403 Forbidden, but specifically for use when authentication is required and has failed or
has not yet been provided. The response must include a WWW-Authenticate header field containing a
challenge applicable to the requested resource. See Basic access authentication and Digest access
authentication. 401 semantically means "unauthenticated", i.e. the user does not have the necessary
credentials.

Note: Some sites issue HTTP 401 when an IP address is banned from the website (usually the website
domain) and that specific address is refused permission to access a website.

.B 402 Payment Required
Reserved for future use. The original intention was that this code might be used as part of some
form of digital cash or micropayment scheme, but that has not happened, and this code is not
usually used. Google Developers API uses this status if a particular developer has exceeded the
daily limit on requests.

.B 403 Forbidden

The request was a valid request, but the server is refusing to respond to it. The user might be
logged in but does not have the necessary permissions for the resource.

.B 404 Not Found

The requested resource could not be found but may be available in the future. Subsequent requests by
the client are permissible.

.B 405 Method Not Allowed

A request method is not supported for the requested resource; for example, a GET request on a form
which requires data to be presented via POST, or a PUT request on a read-only resource.

.B 406 Not Acceptable

The requested resource is capable of generating only content not acceptable according to the Accept
headers sent in the request. See Content negotiation.

.B 407 Proxy Authentication Required (RFC 7235)

The client must first authenticate itself with the proxy.

.B 408 Request Time-out

The server timed out waiting for the request. According to HTTP specifications: "The client did not
produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. The client MAY repeat the
request without modifications at any later time."

.B 409 Conflict

Indicates that the request could not be processed because of conflict in the request, such as an
edit conflict between multiple simultaneous updates.

.B 410 Gone

Indicates that the resource requested is no longer available and will not be available again. This
should be used when a resource has been intentionally removed and the resource should be purged.
Upon receiving a 410 status code, the client should not request the resource in the future. Clients
such as search engines should remove the resource from their indices.[40] Most use cases do not
require clients and search engines to purge the resource, and a "404 Not Found" may be used instead.

.B 411 Length Required

The request did not specify the length of its content, which is required by the requested resource.

.B 412 Precondition Failed (RFC 7232)

The server does not meet one of the preconditions that the requester put on the request.

.B 413 Payload Too Large (RFC 7231)

The request is larger than the server is willing or able to process. Previously called
"Request Entity Too Large".

.B 414 URI Too Long (RFC 7231)

The URI provided was too long for the server to process. Often the result of too much data being
encoded as a query-string of a GET request, in which case it should be converted to a POST request.
Called "Request-URI Too Long" previously.

.B 415 Unsupported Media Type

The request entity has a media type which the server or resource does not support. For example, the
client uploads an image as image/svg+xml, but the server requires that images use a different
format.

.B 416 Range Not Satisfiable (RFC 7233)
The client has asked for a portion of the file (byte serving), but the server cannot supply that
portion. For example, if the client asked for a part of the file that lies beyond the end of the
file. Called "Requested Range Not Satisfiable" previously.

.B 417 Expectation Failed

The server cannot meet the requirements of the Expect request-header field.

.B 418 I'm a teapot (RFC 2324)

This code was defined in 1998 as one of the traditional IETF April Fools' jokes, in RFC 2324, Hyper
Text Coffee Pot Control Protocol, and is not expected to be implemented by actual HTTP servers. The
RFC specifies this code should be returned by teapots requested to brew coffee.
This HTTP status is used as an Easter egg in some websites, including Google.com.

.B 421 Misdirected Request (RFC 7540)

The request was directed at a server that is not able to produce a response (for example because a
connection reuse).

.B 422 Unprocessable Entity (WebDAV; RFC 4918)

The request was well-formed but was unable to be followed due to semantic errors.

.B 423 Locked (WebDAV; RFC 4918)

The resource that is being accessed is locked.

.B 424 Failed Dependency (WebDAV; RFC 4918)

The request failed due to failure of a previous request (e.g., a PROPPATCH).

.B 426 Upgrade Required

The client should switch to a different protocol such as TLS/1.0, given in the Upgrade header
field.

.B 428 Precondition Required (RFC 6585)

The origin server requires the request to be conditional. Intended to prevent "the 'lost update'
problem, where a client GETs a resource's state, modifies it, and PUTs it back to the server, when
meanwhile a third party has modified the state on the server, leading to a conflict."

.B 429 Too Many Requests (RFC 6585)

The user has sent too many requests in a given amount of time. Intended for use with rate-limiting
schemes.

.B 431 Request Header Fields Too Large (RFC 6585)

The server is unwilling to process the request because either an individual header field, or all the
header fields collectively, are too large.

.B 451 Unavailable For Legal Reasons

A server operator has received a legal demand to deny access to a resource or to a set of resources
that includes the requested resource. The code 451 was chosen as a reference to the
novel Fahrenheit 451.

.SH 5xx Server Errors

The server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request.

Response status codes beginning with the digit "5" indicate cases in which the server is aware that
it has encountered an error or is otherwise incapable of performing the request. Except when
responding to a HEAD request, the server should include an entity containing an explanation of the
error situation, and indicate whether it is a temporary or permanent condition. Likewise, user
agents should display any included entity to the user. These response codes are applicable to any
request method.

.B 500 Internal Server Error

A generic error message, given when an unexpected condition was encountered and no more specific
message is suitable.

.B 501 Not Implemented

The server either does not recognize the request method, or it lacks the ability to fulfill the
request. Usually this implies future availability (e.g., a new feature of a web-service API).

.B 502 Bad Gateway

The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and received an invalid response from the upstream
server.

.B 503 Service Unavailable

The server is currently unavailable (because it is overloaded or down for maintenance). Generally,
this is a temporary state.

.B 504 Gateway Time-out

The server was acting as a gateway or proxy and did not receive a timely response from the upstream
server.

.B 505 HTTP Version Not Supported

The server does not support the HTTP protocol version used in the request.

.B 506 Variant Also Negotiates (RFC 2295)

Transparent content negotiation for the request results in a circular reference.

.B 507 Insufficient Storage (WebDAV; RFC 4918)

The server is unable to store the representation needed to complete the request.[15]

.B 508 Loop Detected (WebDAV; RFC 5842)

The server detected an infinite loop while processing the request (sent in lieu of 208 Already
Reported).

.B 510 Not Extended (RFC 2774)

Further extensions to the request are required for the server to fulfill it.

.B 511 Network Authentication Required (RFC 6585)

The client needs to authenticate to gain network access. Intended for use by intercepting proxies
used to control access to the network (e.g., "captive portals" used to require agreement to Terms of
Service before granting full Internet access via a Wi-Fi hotspot).

.SH Unofficial codes

The following codes are not specified by any RFC, but are used by third-party services to provide
semantic or RESTful error responses:

.B 103 Checkpoint

Used in the resumable requests proposal to resume aborted PUT or POST requests.

.B 103 Early Hints

Used to return some response headers before entire HTTP response.

.B 420 Method Failure (Spring Framework)

A deprecated response used by the Spring Framework when a method has failed.

.B 419 I'm a fox (Smoothwall/Foxwall)

Returned by some versions of Smoothwall and Foxwall firewall systems when a config test is returned.

.B 420 Enhance Your Calm (Twitter)

Returned by version 1 of the Twitter Search and Trends API when the client is being rate limited;
versions 1.1 and later use the 429 Too Many Requests response code instead.

.B 450 Blocked by Windows Parental Controls (Microsoft)

A Microsoft extension. This error is given when Windows Parental Controls are turned on and are
blocking access to the given webpage.

.B 498 Invalid Token (Esri)

Returned by ArcGIS for Server. A code of 498 indicates an expired or otherwise invalid token.

.B 499 Token Required (Esri)

Returned by ArcGIS for Server. A code of 499 indicates that a token is required but was not
submitted.

.B 499 Request has been forbidden by antivirus

Produced by some programs such as Wget when a malicious site is intercepted.

.B 509 Bandwidth Limit Exceeded (Apache Web Server/cPanel)

The server has exceeded the bandwidth specified by the server administrator; this is often used by
shared hosting providers to limit the bandwidth of customers.

.B 530 Site is frozen

Used by the Pantheon web platform to indicate a site that has been frozen due to inactivity.

.B 599 Network connect timeout error

Used to indicate when the connection to the network times out.


.SH Internet Information Services

The Internet Information Services expands the 4xx error space to signal errors with the client's
request.

.B 440 Login Time-out

The client's session has expired and must log in again.

.B 449 Retry With

The server cannot honour the request because the user has not provided the required information.

.B 451 Redirect

Used in Exchange ActiveSync when either a more efficient server is available or the server cannot
access the users' mailbox.[74] The client is expected to re-run the HTTP AutoDiscover operation to
find a more appropriate server.

.SH nginx
The nginx web server software expands the 4xx error space to signal issues with the client's
request. These are only used for logging purposes, no actual response is sent with these codes.

.B 444 No Response

Used to indicate that the server has returned no information to the client and closed the
connection.

.B 495 SSL Certificate Error

An expansion of the 400 Bad Request response code, used when the client has provided an invalid
client certificate.

.B 496 SSL Certificate Required

An expansion of the 400 Bad Request response code, used when a client certificate is required but
not provided.

.B 497 HTTP Request Sent to HTTPS Port

An expansion of the 400 Bad Request response code, used when the client has made a HTTP request to a
port listening for HTTPS requests.

.B 499 Client Closed Request

Used when the client has closed the request before the server could send a response.

.SH Cloudflare

Cloudflare's reverse proxy service expands the 5xx series of errors space to signal issues with the
origin server.

.B 520 Unknown Error

The 520 error is used as a "catch-all response for when the origin server returns something
unexpected", listing connection resets, large headers, and empty or invalid responses as common
triggers.

.B 521 Web Server Is Down

The origin server has refused the connection from Cloudflare.

.B 522 Connection Timed Out

Cloudflare could not negotiate a TCP handshake with the origin server.

.B 523 Origin Is Unreachable

Cloudflare could not reach the origin server; for example, if the DNS records for the origin server
are incorrect.

.B 524 A Timeout Occurred

Cloudflare was able to complete a TCP connection to the origin server, but did not receive a timely
HTTP response.

.B 525 SSL Handshake Failed

Cloudflare could not negotiate a SSL/TLS handshake with the origin server.

.B 526 Invalid SSL Certificate

Cloudflare could not validate the SSL/TLS certificate that the origin server presented.

.B 527 Railgun Error

A 527 error indicates that the requests timeout or failed after the WAN connection has been
established.
